Walgreens Boots Alliance said its earnings suffered a negative impact of $700 million to $750 million as the company sustained a major loss of global business from the surge of cases of the coronavirus strain Covid-19 that caused its customers to shelter in their homes.

Early on as the Covid-19 pandemic began, Walgreens and other retailers like CVS Health and Walmart benefitted from Americans and other global customers stocking up on healthcare items and other merchandise like toilet paper and cleaners given drugstores were among the businesses allowed to stay open.

But as March turned to April and Americans, Europeans and others around the world were sheltering in place into May under government orders, Walgreens was hit hard, with retail and pharmacy sales tumbling, particularly in the United Kingdom at Boots pharmacies. The adverse sales impact of $700 million to $750 million was almost “entirely from the company's non-U.S. businesses,” Walgreens said Thursday in its fiscal third quarter earnings report for the period ending May 31, 2020.

“This unprecedented global crisis led to a loss in the quarter as stay-at-home orders affected all of our markets,” Walgreens Executive Vice Chairman and CEO Stefano Pessina, who is also the company’s largest individual shareholder, said Thursday morning during a 70-minute call with analysts. “Covid has impacted all of our markets.”

Walgreens suffered a $1.7 billion loss, or $1.95 per share, compared with earnings of $1.03 billion, or $1.13 per share, a year earlier.

Still, sales increased 0.1% to $34.6 billion, led by retail pharmacy growth in the U.S., which was up 3%, Walgreens said.

“Prescriptions filled in the third quarter decreased 1.3 percent, compared with the same quarter a year earlier,” Walgreens said in its third quarter earnings statement of its U.S. retail pharmacy sales. “In comparable stores, prescriptions filled increased 0.4% from a year earlier, a slower rate of growth than in the second quarter, as COVID-19 stay-at-home orders led to a drop in doctor visits and hospital admissions.”

To help improve the bottom line and streamline operations, Walgreens has escalated its cost-cutting effort around the world that will include cutting more than 4,000 jobs at its Boots drugstore operations in the United Kingdom, the company disclosed Thursday.

“Key elements of the proposed plan include a reorganization of the Boots store employee structure, the closure of 48 Boots Opticians stores and an additional 20 percent headcount reduction in the UK support office,” Walgreens said Thursday morning. “Subject to labor consultation, these reorganization actions will impact more than 4,000 positions (7 percent of the workforce).”

Walgreens is escalating its “annual cost savings target” to more than $2 billion by its fiscal 2022 compared to an earlier target of $1.8 billion.

Meanwhile, Walgreens is under pressure from Wall Street to bring its operations into the digital age, which has added to its costs.

Last month, Walgreens said it is expanding its partnership with Microsoft while adding a deal with Adobe to better “personalize” the shopping and healthcare experience of its more than 100 million customers. The drugstore giant, which has already been working with Microsoft for the last 18 months to modernize technology and move operations to the cloud, says the new phase of the relationship is focused on a “new personalization platform.”